Source: Introduction to Programming Using Java (Eck)
Chapter: Chapter 6: Introduction to GUI Programming
URL: https://math.hws.edu/javanotes/c6/index.html
Chapter 6
Introduction to GUI Programming
C
omputer users today expect
to interact
with their computers using a graphical user interface (GUI), and
Java can be used to write sophisticated GUI programs.
GUI programs
differ from traditional "straight-through" programs that you have 
encountered in the first few chapters of this book.  One big difference is
that GUI programs are
event-driven
. That is, user actions such as
clicking on a button or pressing a key on the keyboard generate events, and the
program must respond to these events as they occur.
Event-driven programming builds on all the skills you have learned in the
first five chapters of this text. You need to be able to write the methods
that respond to events. Inside those methods, you are doing the kind of
programming-in-the-small that was covered in
Chapter 2
and
Chapter 3
.
And of course, objects are everywhere in GUI programming.  
Events are objects. Colors and fonts are objects.  GUI components such as buttons and
menus are objects.  Events are handled by instance methods contained in objects. 
In Java, GUI programming is object-oriented programming.  The purpose of this chapter is, as
much as anything, to give you some experience with a large-scale object-oriented API.
This chapter is just an introduction to JavaFX, but it covers the
essential features of GUI programming in enough detail to write some
interesting programs.  The discussion of JavaFX will continue in
Chapter 13
with more details and with more advanced techniques, but complete coverage
of JavaFX would require an entire book of its own.
Note that JavaFX is not distributed as part of the Java
Development Kit.  For information about how to obtain JavaFX and how to
compile and run programs that use it, see
Section 2.6
.
This edition of this textbook covers GUI programming using the JavaFX GUI toolkit.
An alternative edition covers the Swing GUI toolkit instead of JavaFX.  
Swing is included as a standard part of Java, so does not require any extra
downloads or configuration.  The Swing edition can be found
at
https://math.hws.edu/javanotes9-swing
.
The only really significant differences between the two editions are in this
chapter and in
Chapter 13
.
Contents of Chapter 6:
Section 1:
A Basic JavaFX Application
Section 2:
Some Basic Classes
Section 3:
Basic Events
Section 4:
Basic Controls
Section 5:
Basic Layout
Section 6:
Complete Programs
Programming Exercises
Quiz on This Chapter