Source: Introduction to Programming Using Java (Eck)
Chapter: Chapter 7: Arrays, ArrayLists, and Records
URL: https://math.hws.edu/javanotes/c7/index.html
Chapter 7
Arrays, ArrayLists, and Records
C
omputers get a lot of their power
from working
with
data structures
. A data structure is an
organized collection of related data. An object is a data structure, combined
usually with some methods, but this
type of data structure—consisting of a fairly small number of named instance
variables—is just the beginning. In many cases, programmers build
complicated data structures by hand, by linking objects together. We'll look at
these custom-built data structures in
Chapter 9
.  This
chapter looks at more basic data structures. There is one type of
data structure that is so important and so basic that it is built into every
programming language: the array.
You have already encountered arrays in
Section 3.8
and
Subsection 5.1.4
.  We continue the study of arrays in this chapter,
including some new details of their use and some additional array-processing
techniques.  In particular, we will look at the important topic of algorithms for
searching and sorting an array in
Section 7.5
.
An array has a fixed size that can't be changed after the array is created.
But in many cases, it is useful to have a data structure that can grow and shrink
as necessary.  In
Section 7.3
, we will look at a standard class,
ArrayList
, that represents such a data structure.
An array is a numbered sequence of items, all of the same type.  A
record
is another kind of standard data structure.  Like an array, a record consists of a sequence of items,
but in a record, the items are referred to by name instead of by number, and
the items can be of different types.  Any object in Java can be thought of
as a record in this sense, but Java 17 introduced records explicitly 
into the language as a special kind of class with certain restrictions.
We will look at record classes in
Section 7.4
.
Contents of Chapter 7:
Section 1:
Array Details
Section 2:
Array Processing
Section 3:
ArrayList
Section 4:
Records
Section 5:
Searching and Sorting
Section 6:
Two-dimensional Arrays
Programming Exercises
Quiz on This Chapter